hi I'm Petey from silver heart and today
Kristen and I are here to talk to you
about the adaptive cruise control that
comes in many for cars these days we
happen to be in a limited Explorer with
the adaptive cruise control option and
right now we are following our co-worker
who is driving in front of us who'll
give us a good baseline with which to
talk to you about this cruise control so
first thing we're gonna do is set the
cruise control as you would normally set
the new cruise control adaptive cruise
control for those you don't know just
maintains a safe distance between the
car in front of you and your car at a
consistent pace and it corrects the
distance between the two of you based on
the speed the speed you have your cruise
control set so there are actually three
settings so go ahead and turn our cruise
control on there Kristin this is
Kristin's first time using the cruise
control so I think she's a little
terrified because you really have to
trust the dorg and that that actually is
quite a joyful thing for me and go ahead
Kristen and set it just just wrong speed
limit like we talked about okay so that
we are traveling faster than our
co-worker we should be doing about five
miles under our under the speed limit
how did what happen the windshield
wipers went I am Not sure but keep
setting it set it set up another five
miles an hour please see up so we can
catch up to our coworker there are three
levels on the adaptive cruise control
one two or three one is approximately a
second and a half distance between you
and the person in front of you and then
three is about two and a half seconds so
here we go up to sixty miles an hour
and again our co-workers should be doing
about 55 so that we can come up on her
from behind and slow down appropriately
gonna slow down it will slow down put
cheese down I'm very confident on this
okay keep your feet flat just let it do
its thing we're coming up very quickly
and it's a little scary and there we go
now we slowed down the adaptive cruise
I'll admit I'm a little sweaty on this
one too I totally trust the cart I've
got this in my own car my feet I will
admit they were on the floor they were
on the floor and we slowed down we are
now traveling at about 40 or 39 miles an
hour because we were following a truck
that was going very very slowly and we
are maintaining a safe distance again we
are in setting one right here because I
made it a little more terrifying for
both of us right your hearts fluttering
a little bit right okay we have a red
lights we do have to stop for the red
light it won't stop us completely but it
will break you very hard if you need to
slow down appropriately so basically
that's it in action that's what we're
going for is it will use radar to detect
the car in front of you they will tell
you it can see a car in front of you
there's an icon on your screen shows a
little car shows the number of bars and
the gap so if it's one bar the gap is a
second a half of its three bars the gap
is about two and a half second and it
will show that it is registering a car
in front of you now it only works when
the speed when the cruise control is
working and after the stoplight for
example we have to resume to get the
cruise control back on and now we have
the icon once again two cars showing on
there to let us know that it knows
there's a car there works - about 600
feet
it knows as a car there it's got it
covered even works around turns which is
pretty cool
won't turn the car for you mind you but
it'll maintain your speed and it will
keep you keep you safe and you know what
great really helpful it'll slow you down
it already did it once you've confidence
now don't you come on Kristin you got
this here comes and there we go we're
travelling at about the state of speed
are crusin tilts at 60 miles an hour we
are driving at about 53 miles an hour it
will accelerate us up to 60 miles an
hour not beyond it will slow us down to
about just 30 25 to 35 miles an hour
depending on the model of your car
because that's where the cruise control
will stop working and it's an absolute
godsend when you're in slow traffic on
the highway slow not quite stop and go
but slow and go you know were you doing
40 and you're doing 60 love it for that
absolutely yeah well again once you've
got it going once you're in the flow of
traffic it's a little a little scarier
than coming up on sunny wind you in the
flow of traffic and all that's doing is
maintaining your speed in consistent
pace with speed the cars in front of you
that's right once you go ahead and hit
the gap button down twice that should
extend our gap up to two and a half
seconds and you'll see what we're doing
is we're backing off gently from the car
in front of us gives us a nice room this
is a much more comfortable traveling
distance especially on a road like this
or if we're coming up quickly behind the
car in front of us as we did
and and this is really the distance that
is good for highway driving second and a
half to me is always a little bit my
foot hovers over the brake yeah at a
second and now it's it should it speed
us up the hill again up to as much as 60
miles an hour because that's where we
have it set but maintaining a safe
distance behind the car in front of us
it is an amazing wonderful piece of
technology but you really have it
mastered and what you trust it so the
next step in the evolution to not having
to drive your car yeah is adaptive
cruise control